---
title: Webhooks
description: X
metaTitle: X
metaDescription: X
---

# Webhooks for Custom Media-Centric Logic

Livepeer.com uses webhooks to communicate with your application asynchronously
when events for your stream occur. For example, you may want to know when a
stream has become active or idle, so that you can surface this information to
viewers. When these events happen, we’ll make a POST request to a URL that you
specify.

## Using Webhooks

### How to configure endpoints

Webhook endpoints are specific for each `event`. Once the event is registered,
all streams for this account will be triggering the specific event. Here is an
example of registering for the `stream.started` and `stream.idle` events:

```
curl \
    -X POST \
    -H "authorization: Bearer {api_key}" \
    -H "content-type: application/json" \
    --data-raw '{
      "events": ["stream.started", "stream.idle"],
      "url": "{webhook_url}",
      "name": "test webhooks"
  }' \
  https://livepeer.com/api/webhook`
```

This request should return:

```
{
      "createdAt" : 1624939859628,
      "events": ["stream.started", "stream.idle"],
      "id" : "e7b8a281-8952-4791-b837-183cb95bbf32",
      "kind" : "webhook",
      "name" : "test webhooks",
      "url" : "{webhook_endpoint}",
      "userId" : "ffcd3b74-9908-4d23-be05-58e1480e752a"
}

```

Now all streams will trigger the `stream.started` and `stream.idle` events for
this account.

### Other webhooks endpoints

`GET /api/webhook`: Get a list of webhooks

`GET /api/webhook/:webhookID`: Get a single webhook Object details

`PUT /api/webhook/:webhookID`: Edit a webhook, using the same parameters as POST
/webhook

`DEL /api/webhook/:webhookID`: Delete a webhook

### Types of Events

<Table
  data={[
    {
      name: "stream.started",
      description:
        "The parent stream object's isActive value is marked as true and the .m3u8 HLS URL works",
    },
    {
      name: "stream.idle",
      description:
        "The parent stream object's isActive value should be marked as false and the .m3u8 HLS URL no longer works",
    },
    {
      name: "recording.ready",
      description: "This fires when a recording is ready to be downloaded",
    },
    {
      name: "recording.started",
      description: "This fires when recording has started on an active stream",
    },
    {
      name: "recording.waiting",
      description:
        "This fires after a stream with recording on has concluded and is not yet ready to be downloaded. Typically it takes 5 minutes for recordings to be ready for download.",
    },
    {
      name: "multistream.connected",
      description:
        "This fires when we've successfully connected to the multistream target",
    },
    {
      name: "multistream.error",
      description:
        "This fires when we've encountered an error either while attempting to connect to the third party streaming service or while broadcasting.",
    },
    {
      name: "multistream.disconnected",
      description:
        "This fires when we are no longer sending video to the multistream target.",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Webhook Signatures

You can verify webhook requests that Livepeer.com sends to your endpoints, using
the request header signature included by Livepeer.com. This signature will help
you verify the incoming request comes from Livepeer.com and not a third party.

Livepeer.com will include a signature in each event’s `Livepeer-Signature`
header. The timestamp is prefixed by `t=` and the signature is prefixed by a
scheme. Schemes start with `v`, followed by an integer. Currently, the only
valid signature scheme is v1. Livepeer.com generates signatures using HMAC with
SHA2-256.

`Livepeer-Signature: t=36285904404,v1=88f3ff0fds9sf8a98vb0b096e81507cfd5c932fc17cf63a4a55566fd38da3a2d3d2`

To validate the signature, take the following steps:

### Step 1: Extract the timestamp and signatures from the header

Split the header, using the `,` character as the separator, to get a list of
elements. Then split each element, using the `=` character as the separator, to
get a prefix and value pair. The value for the prefix `t` corresponds to the
timestamp, and `v1` corresponds to the signature (or signatures). You can
discard all other elements.

### Step 2: Prepare the signed_payload string

The `signed_payload` is the raw request payload. Note that the JSON in the
request payload includes the same `timestamp` from the signature header to
protect against replay attacks.

### Step 3: Determine the expected signature

Compare the signature (or signatures) in the header to the expected signature.
For an equality match, compute the difference between the current timestamp and
the received timestamp, then decide if the difference is within your tolerance.

To protect against timing attacks, use a constant-time string comparison to
compare the expected signature to each of the received signatures.
